So this whole token thing is working thus far
but as I mentioned at the ending of the last lecture, we'll have some issues.
If the user closes the app and relaunches it, he needs to sign in again,
not the best user experience
if theoretically we might still have a valid token and that's the next thing,
how long is such a token valid? If we sign in and we inspect this object we get back where we got the
token,
there's more info than just the token,
there also is this expiresIn field
and as the name suggests, this indicates when this token will expire and that's in seconds,
so it will expire after one hour and that's a default value by firebase, you can't change this,
so after one hour it will expire.
Now we could either automatically log the user out after one hour but it would be even better to constantly
renew the token.
Now that's one thing I'll come back to but first of all, it will be even more useful if we could store
the token somewhere where we can get it even if the app was closed because our whole redux store will
be empty by then,
so if our app restarts because we closed it or it was automatically closed, we need to be able to again
check if we are authenticated,
these are all things I want to do now.
So first of all let's store the token somewhere else or additionally to redux and to redux store, let's
store it somewhere else.
Right now in our auth set token action, this is only caught by the reducer and that's it,
we set the token in our redux store.
Now remember that async store I talked about? That's now becoming important. If you visit the
react native docs and there under API at the bottom, you search for async storage,
you get this documentation here.
The async storage is a helper which allows you to store key value pairs and it will automatically pick the
right storage depending on which system it's running on,
for example on Android it might pick SQLite and here you can find information on the API and how
to use it with set and get item and it's called async storage because all of that returns a promise,
it doesn't happen instantly,
it happens asynchronously.
So this is what we will use and this is where I also want to store the token besides setting it in
my redux store.
So I'll add a new constant, a new function here in my auth action creator file and I'll name it auth store token,
now there I also get the token
but unlike in auth set token, I won't store it in the redux store here but I want to store it in the
async storage.
So first of all I'll dispatch something so I return this function style here and by the end, I will also dispatch
auth set token and pass the token onto that because I still want to store it in redux
but I will also store it in async storage here.
Now for that,
I'll add an import at the very top,
I'll import async storage from react native, this API,
now at the bottom here I now want to store it here, so I will reach out to async storage and there call
set item and now give this any unique identifier you want, I'll name it ap for awesome places
auth token and this is any string you want, just a clear identifier.
And then the second argument, auth set item is the value you want to store,
now here I want to store the token, as I said this is a promise so you can add a
then call,
you could also dispatch this action once this is done
but I want to do this immediately.
So all I need to do now is I will use auth store token instead of auth set token here in the successful
we have a token case, now I'll also store it in async storage.
Now the question is how do we get it out of there
and how do we best use it? Now
no matter which usage that is, it probably belongs into auth get token, there we get the token from our redux
store but it would also be interesting to look into the async storage
if we get no token.
So here instead of directly rejecting, we maybe want to do that instead, instead of instantly resolving
the token, we could have a look at async storage and see if we got a token there. For that I'll access async
storage here too, get item and here get item needs the key we set up before,
so this key we defined here which is the key to our token and then this also gives us a promise.
So of course what I can do is now here we can add another catch block to catch any errors,
then I can still reject and we can add a then block in here where we do have the token from storage and in
this case, we could dispatch set token, auth set token so not store token to not store it again, just set
token to set it in redux too, so there we set the token from storage and we thereafter can also resolve this
token from storage.
So this is now how we can get our token from the storage in case it somehow is missing in redux.
Now I can prove this to you,
let's save this and let's reload our application, login and now clearly we have a token here, we can
find the places and we can visit a place, now we can go back in time here though. Now I'm back to UI
stop loading because the other parts are grayed out,
that means if I inspect my current state, we get no token. If I now
delete this,
it still worked without an error and I can prove this by reloading again,
you will see the place still is gone.
It worked without an error but not because the token was in the redux store but because we used this fall
back here,
so this is how we can indeed use async storage, to have it as a fallback but it can be more useful than
that because the main reason why we want to use it is to persist the token after app relaunches, so
after the user did this, relaunch
the app. Then I want to check if we do have a token in storage here on the sign up screen to automatically
log the user in,
let's do this in the next lecture.